# GRIN-Lens-
GRIN lens for geometry
Designing optimized gradient-index (GRIN) phononic-crystal lens (PCL) over a broad frequency range is a significant challenge with a direct application in wave energy harvesting problems. The proposed GRIN PCL in this letter is formed from a lattice of void inclusions in a thin host layer with transverse variations of the inclusion diameters. Under harmonic-plane-wave excitation, the resulting wavefields for various random lens shapes are obtained both numerically and experimentally and later stored to be used as the training data. Inspired by deep learning based data-driven method, we propose and analyze a system to predict the optimized design of such a GRIN lens by training the network using the gathered information. Finally, the performance of the predicted designs from the neural network is validated, by comparing it to the result obtained by employing multiple scattering technique. 

This work is divided into two different problems: 
1) Optimal lens design using Resent 
2) Frequency-dependent wavefield prediction using deep neural network

1) Optimal lens design using Resnet:
In this work, we use 21,000 numerically generated data using multiple scattering technique to train the neural network. The data are all generated by a plane wave at the frequency of 50 kHz, with random selections of lens design. The input data are the configuration of the inclusions at the lens (their location and radii) and the output are the wavefield response (black and white picture). Then, these gathered information are reversed to have the output/input of the simulation as the input/output of the neural network. In the next step, the data are split into training set and test set. As shown in the attached picture A1, the proposed ResNet for this work is composed of five convolutional blocks and a fully connected layer equipped with “sigmoid” activation function at the end to predict the lens shape.  To compile the model, Adam optimizer was used with the learning rate of 0.01 for the first 1000 iterations, and later this value was reduced to 0.001 for a better accuracy. Finally the trained neural network could reduce the mean squared logarithmic error to 1E-5, and the accuracy of 88 percent after 5000 iterations. The results generated using the proposed neural network are depicted in Picture A2, in which we compare the wavefield computed using multiple scattering technique with the one obtained from the network, yielding a great match between those two results. 

2) Frequency-dependent wavefield prediction using deep neural network:
For most of the experimental measurements in the field of acoustics and elastic waves, we are mostly limited to the range of frequency in which the results are trustable. For lower frequencies, the wavelength is too large, resulting in a faster reflection from the boundary; while for the higher frequencies, the measurement equipment might not be able to capture all wave response features due to small wavelength. In order to address this, using the data we gathered within a trusted frequency range, we try to predict the experimental date for frequencies outside of that range. As depicted in Picture A3, we use a deep neural network with three layers to relate the excitation frequency to the obtained wavefield. In order to train the network, the data are split into training and test sets with the ratio of 85/15. The trained neural network could obtained the mean squared logarithmic error of 5E-7, and the accuracy of 88 percent after 500 iterations. The results generated using the proposed neural network are depicted in Picture A4, in which we compare the wavefield measured using experimental setup with the one obtained from the network, yielding a great match between those two results. 


 
